# aes
OBJECTIVE:
In today's image communication system security of images is essential. It is necessary to protect confidential image data from unauthorized users. To detect and find unauthorized users is a challenging task. Different researchers proposed different techniques for securing image transmission. 
Today almost all digital services like internet communication, medical and military imaging systems, multimedia system requires reliable security in storage and transmission of digital images. Due to faster growth in multimedia technology, internet and cellphones, there is a need for image encryption techniques in order to hide images from such attacks. In this system we use AES (Advanced Encryption Technique) in order to hide image. Such Encryption Technique helps to avoid intrusion attacks.

WHY AES IS SECURE?:
AES brings additional security because it uses a key expansion process in which the initial key is used to come up with a series of new keys called round keys. These round keys are generated over multiple rounds of modification, each of which makes it harder to break the encryption. 
First, the initial key is added to the block using an XOR (“exclusive or”) cipher, which is an operation built into processor hardware. Then each byte of data is substituted with another, following a predetermined table. Next, the rows of the 4x4 array are shifted: bytes in the second row are moved one space to the left, bytes in the third row are moved two spaces, and bytes in the fourth are moved three. The columns are then mixed—a mathematical operation combines the four bytes in each column. Finally, the round key is added to the block (much like the initial key was), and the process is repeated for each round. This yields ciphertext that is radically different from the plaintext. For AES decryption, the same process is carried out in reverse. 
Each stage of the AES encryption algorithm serves an important function. Using a different key for each round provides a much more complex result. Byte substitution modifies the data in a nonlinear manner, obscuring the relationship between the original and encrypted content. Shifting the rows and mixing the columns diffuses the data, transposing bytes to further complicate the encryption. Shifting diffuses the data horizontally, while mixing does so vertically. The result is a tremendously sophisticated form of encryption. 
